Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to be looking at the tear and unary operator.
So basically we saw that it allows us to apply a condition
evaluate the condition and depending on what that condition is we can see that it evaluates to TRUE
or FALSE.
And we're able to assign a value to it.
So let's not
output our content into the ID here the element with the ID output.
So you set up a variable first calling it output and we'll do document and we'll grab that element to
document element by id and then we just need to identify the element that we want to grab and we can
identify it with the ID output Next let's up another variable.
And what do we call it log in.
So for now let's logon to false.
And this is the one that we're going to switch to either true or false.
And I'll show you how we can create that input and update the content here within our output element.
So next let's do outputs and this one we're just going to hold a value so basically it's going to be
our ace T.M. value for output.
And for now let's just leave this blank.
So this is where we're going to use our territory operator and we're going to set another variable with
the territory operator and we're going to check to see if the user is OK and we're evaluating the value
of log in.
So with that conditional ternary operator there is one condition and then two expressions.
So these are all you need to include all three of these in order to make it work properly.
So let's take log in and we can do if log in equals true.
And we know that we saw earlier when we were evaluating conditions that we can really simplify this
and we can simply check to see if log in is true.
So this is going to be the same thing we could remove out the two equal signs.
True.
Maybe we'll leave it there for now and then I'll show you that exact same thing and we'll remove it.
OK.
So next we include the question mark and the question mark and the condition.
So javascript reading this will know that this is the condition and we've got a question mark.
So basically the first expression is going to be true and I can update.
I would put the value for output holder and.
Okay.
Or we could just say true for now and then we can update those values later on.
So just put true and otherwise we're going to create a value for output holder and let's set it to false.
And these can.
They don't have to be true or false because these are strong values.
We've got the quotes around them so they are different from the bully value we've got log in coming
next.
And lastly let's update our inner H-2 now.
So two outputs and in our HMO and we're going to update this to whatever value is contained within the
variable of user.
Okay.
So let's go ahead refresh and try it.
And we see that we get false.
And if I update this we can see that it's should be true and it is true.
So basically this is how the conditional operators work is they give us the ability to actually evaluate
something.
And basically if a choice needs to be made then we can make that choice and spit back and output our
response back to that choice by beaking not condition.
So the other thing with territory operators we don't actually need to set it as a variable.
Now I know earlier we've been setting them all as variables but we don't even need to do that.
We can take some type of action we can have an alert or something else pop up.
So there's a number of different options for us in this case as well.
So let's try one of those as an example where we're not going to use that user.
Okay.
And we're just going to simply evaluate it and do the response spot for it directly within this within
the expression.
And that's this part over here.
So let's let's do that condition.
So do log in ANS remember again we don't need to have this the two equal signs.
True.
So this will check this anyway so we can really simplify the code by removing those out.
So let's take a look and we'll see if loggin.
And then do the question mark.
And basically here is where we can update and change our content for output.
So we did say that we want to launch an alert and I'll just say okay this time and we separate it with
the coal and and otherwise we're going to go alert and we'll do it tonight.
So let's see how this works so we're refreshed and we see that it's OK and we can click it.
And then over here let's update this to the false and we see it's denied.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and create an array of bunch of usernames so create
an array of usernames
create a prompt asking for a user name and then check to see if the user name is within the array.
And if it is then we put ok within the output area.
And if it's not then we say that it's denied.
And this has to go into this element the output element.
And I'll give you a hint.
Use index of when you're doing your ternary operator and check to see if there is a value within that
array.
So that way you can see that if this value is sitting within that array username and this one has a
prompt.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and I'm going to show you the solution coming up so we had an opportunity to try that.
So we had a number of steps that we wanted to take with in this exercise.
And the first one is to create an array.
So just create an array and call it user names and then within here we need to populate some values.
So we'll do my and we'll do Sean and we get out in as many user names as we want.
So I'm going to keep that out to for now.
But we know or maybe I'll add one more.
I'll do something like Larry.
So you've got three user usernames in there.
So now what we want to do is make a check and evaluate if those users are those usernames are valid
usernames within the array.
So I'm going to use.
I'm going to refresh this page am I going to open up the console and just to make sure that we do have
user names here.
So we do have them in here.
And remember earlier when we were using index of.
And we can we need to specify the array so we can say index of.
And we can check to see if the value is in there.
So let's say I did a value to Mike
and I actually should be user names.
So if the value is in there then it's going to return by the value of where Mike is located.
So the index value of where Mike is located so we can do the same thing for other usernames.
So just go to make sure that we are grabbing the right case and we see that
upper case Larry is not there but lower case Larry will be there.
So always be careful about those cases and we can see that when we try to find one that actually wasn't
in the army then it returned the negative one.
So this is what we can use within our operator.
So let's let's do that check check user.
And here is where we're going to apply our usernames.
So just as we did here within the console index of.
And then now let's put that user name.
So try out Mike for now.
It's always a good way to try things first.
And if this comes back.
So we actually apply conditions so we need to check to see if it's greater than negative 1.
So that means that the user is there and we can return back a value of true.
Otherwise let's do false.
So basically we've got our condition here and we can see that if Mike is in there that user check come
and valuated to true otherwise it's going to evaluate to false.
So let's try that.
And I'm actually going to come into these alerts go back and refresh it.
And now let's let's see what check user evaluates to.
And we see that it is true.
So now we can use that and we can update our output.
So let's let's keep this one in here so that puts a value can to keep it within the code so that we
can grab back the output.
We don't need some of the other statements here and last part of the exercise was to output it with
the output HMO.
So I'm going to just do it like this.
And then here is where I'm going to use my 10 unary operator and I get a check to see if this one is
true.
And of course I could have done I could've saved myself maybe some trouble by just bringing this one
into the username so let's do it this way first so that we get even more practice with the Turner operators
and then we're going to remove that and simplify the code.
And I still need to add one more value there.
So before I actually check to see I need to find out who it is.
So user input and this is where I'm going to use the prompt and I ask what is your name.
And update this to check for the user input in here and then also over here so I can do something like
welcome
and otherwise we'll do tonight.
So this value will be denied or welcome and then
let's go to the HMO the username.
So we're going to add to it's a comma separate that concatenated together with the input and the rest
of the stuff here we can actually get rid of.
So now let's let's try our code.
So refresh the page what is your name.
So in the tape and Mike for now and then we get Welcome Mike.
If I type in a name that nobody will hit and we see tonight.
So as I said we can actually simplify this that we can get rid of one of these terrorist statements
where we could go directly and have the message here.
So let me show you how to do that.
And let's simplify the code.
So do you know how we could simplify the code.
So basically we can just do walk home or tonight and we can get rid of the line altogether because we're
not going to be using that variable so we have no need to set it.
And let's refresh and we'll try that just to make sure everything is working refreshed again.
So that was my misspelling of Mike and this time Baulkham Mike Zun the next lesson I assure you.
The tarrier operator and we're going to get introduced to the if conditional statement.